So let's recap what we've learned about
the if-then-else statement. So the if
statement identifies which statement or
code block to run based on the value of
an expression in other words based on a
specific condition. Inside the code block
defined by curly braces, we can have one
or multiple statements and we can use
the else statement after the if in that
case, when the condition is false the
else block will be executed.
We can also add else if to test multiple
conditions. So in the following image you
can see the basic if then else statement
structure. So we have a test there in
other words the condition inside the
parentheses, when the condition is true
the block inside the if statement will
be executed. Now that block can be one
statement or multiple statements, when
the condition is false, the block inside
the else statement will execute. In other
words, both blocks will never execute at
the same time, only one will based on the
condition being true or false. Now a
block there is defined with curly braces,
so be careful with the semicolon there
is no semicolon that should be added
after the if statement, if you add a
semicolon,
it can cause unwanted behavior in
order, once you closed off the if condition so
make sure you don't put a semicolon on
the same line of the if. So let's just go
through one more example here, you can
see the code on the screen there and the
first part of the code there in
parentheses score greater than equal to
5,000 we're testing that expression, in
this case because we've defined on the
previous line the score being 5,000 the
expression score greater than or equal
to 5,000 is true, so in that scenario
what's going to happen is the code block
following will be executed and you can
see the two they're pointing out to that
in this case the output will print your
score was greater than equal to 2,000.
When it's finished, the code will then
jump to the first line after
the last curly brace and continue with
the rest of the program, so you can see
it effectively ignore the else component
because in this case the expression
score greater than equal to 5,000 was
evaluated as true. Okay, so for this slide
here the score is set to 800 so in step 1
the condition will be false this is
the expression score greater than equal
to 5,000 because of course the score
here isn't greater than or equal to
5,000. So in that scenario the next
condition will be yet to be evaluated
will be step 2 and that will be true
since score is less than 1000 and it's
greater than or equal to 500, so remember
the and to ampersand operators the and
operator both conditions need to be true
and the end result here is true so
therefore the code block on the next
line will be executed and the message
your score was less than 1000 but
greater than or equal to 500 will be
displayed on the screen and then it'll
jump down to the first line after the
last curly brace and continue with the
rest of the program. Alright so in this
last slide the first test there we're
going to get a false and that's because
with the score has been defined on the
first line of score equalled 200 and
revalue 18 with the expression score
greater than or equal to 5,000 so
consequently the code then goes to the
second line the elsif because it was
false and we're evaluating the test here
for score being less than 1000 and score
being greater than or equal to 500 and
in that scenario that expression is now
false because score isn't greater than
or equal to 500. So at this point since
we never have any other conditions the
else block will be executed and the
message your score was less than 500
will be printed and obviously there's
only one statement in that final else
code block. Once that's finished the code
continues after that block in other
words after the last brace, so that's us
that was a recap of the if statement.
Let's move on now to the next video.